1. Timing issues Severity: Informational Diﬃculty: Undetermined Type: Cryptography Finding ID: TOB-CTNC-1 Target: src/abstract/curve.ts Description The library provides a scalar multiplication routine that aims to keep the number of BigInteger operations constant, in order to be (close to) constant-time. However, there are some locations in the implementation where timing diﬀerences can cause issues: ● ● ● Pre-computed point look-up during scalar multiplication (ﬁgure 1.1) Second part of signature generation Tonelli-Shanks square root computation // Check if we're onto Zero point. // Add random point inside current window to f. const offset1 = offset; const offset2 = offset + Math .abs(wbits) - 1 ; // -1 because we skip zero const cond1 = window % 2 !== 0 ; const cond2 = wbits < 0 ; if (wbits === 0 ) { // The most important part for const-time getPublicKey f = f.add(constTimeNegate(cond1, precomputes[offset1])); } else { p = p.add(constTimeNegate(cond2, precomputes[offset2])); } Figure 1.1: Pre-computed point lookup during scalar multiplication ( noble-curves/src/abstract/curve.ts:117–128 ) The scalar multiplication routine comprises a loop, part of which is shown in Figure 1.1. Each iteration adds a selected pre-computed point to the accumulator p (or to the dummy accumulator f if relevant scalar bits are all zero). However, the array access to select the appropriate pre-computed point is not constant-time. Figure 1.2 shows how the implementation computes the second half of an ECDSA signature. 14 noble-curves Security Assessment const s = modN(ik * modN(m + modN(d * r))); // s = k^-1(m + rd) mod n Figure 1.2: Generation of the second part of the signature ( noble-curves/src/abstract/weierstrass.ts:988 ) First, the private key is multiplied by the ﬁrst half of the signature and reduced modulo the group order. Next, the message digest is added and the result is again reduced modulo the group order. If the modulo operation is not constant-time, and if an attacker can detect this timing diﬀerence, they can perform a lattice attack to recover the signing key. The details of this attack are described in the TCHES 2019 article by Ryan . Note that the article does not show that this timing diﬀerence attack can be practically exploited, but instead mounts a cache-timing attack to exploit it. FpSqrt is a function that computes square roots of quadratic residues over 𝐹 . Based on 𝑝 𝑝 , this function chooses one of several sub-algorithms, including 𝑝 the value of Tonelli-Shanks. Some of these algorithms are constant-time with respect to , but some are not. In particular, the implementation of the Tonelli-Shanks algorithm has a high degree of timing variability. The FpSqrt function is used to decode compressed point representations, so it can inﬂuence timing when handling potentially sensitive or adversarial data. Most texts consider Tonelli-Shanks the “fallback” algorithm when a faster or simpler algorithm is unavailable. However, Tonelli-Shanks can be used for any prime modulus Further, Tonelli-Shanks can be made constant time for a given value of 𝑝 . 𝑝 . Timing leakage threats can be reduced by modifying the Tonelli-Shanks code to run in constant time (see here ), and making the constant-time implementation the default square root algorithm. Special-case algorithms can be broken out into separate functions (whether constant- or variable-time), for use when the modulus is known to work, or timing attacks are not a concern. Exploit Scenario An attacker interacts with a user of the library and measures the time it takes to execute signature generation or ECDH key exchange. In the case of static ECDH, the attacker may provide diﬀerent public keys to be multiplied with the static private key of the library user. In the case of ECDSA, the attacker may get the user to repeatedly sign the same message, which results in scalar multiplications on the base point using the same deterministically generated nonce. The attacker can subsequently average the obtained execution times for operations with the same input to gain more precise timing estimates. Then, the attacker uses the obtained execution times to mount a timing attack: 15 noble-curves Security Assessment ● ● In the case of ECDSA, the attacker may attempt to mount the attack from the TCHES 2019 article by Ryan . However, it is unknown whether this attack will work in practice when based purely on timing. In the case of static ECDH, the attacker may attempt to mount a recursive attack, similar to the attacks described in the Cardis 1998 article by Dhem et al. or the JoCE 2013 article by Danger et al. Note that the timing diﬀerences caused by the precomputed point look-up may not be suﬃcient to mount such a timing attack. The attacker would need to ﬁnd other timing diﬀerences, such as diﬀerences in the point addition routines based on one of the input points. The fact that the library uses a complete addition formula increases the diﬃculty, but there could still be timing diﬀerences caused by the underlying big integer arithmetic. Determining whether such timing attacks are practically applicable to the library (and how many executions they would need) requires a large number of measurements on a dedicated benchmarking system, which was not done as part of this engagement. Recommendations Short term, consider adding scalar randomization to primitives where the same private scalar can be used multiple times, such as ECDH and deterministic ECDSA. To mitigate the attack from the TCHES 2019 article by Ryan , consider either blinding the private scalar in the signature computation or removing the modular reduction of 𝑠 = 𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑁 ( 𝑖𝑘 * 𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑁 ( 𝑚 + 𝑑 * 𝑟 )) , i.e., 𝑑 · 𝑟 𝑑 . Long term, ensure that all low-level operations are constant-time. References ● ● ● Return of the Hidden Number Problem, Ryan, TCHES 2019 A Practical Implementation of the Timing Attack, Dhem et al., Cardis 1998 A synthesis of side-channel attacks on elliptic curve cryptography in smart-cards, Danger et al., JoCE 2013 16 noble-curves Security Assessment 
